# Client Demographics

* FormID: 1000000004
* Form Type: Edit

## Description

The basic form to create or update a wide array of demographic information. Enter information in the fields and hit save to commit. Creating a new client record requires a duplicate check. Adding or changing the address requires an address verification.

## Duplicate Check

When creating a new client this form will require a duplicate check. This is a stored procedure that searches the database for existing client records which match the information entered in the first name, last name, birth date, SSN, and gender fields. At least one of these fields needs to have a non-empty value for the procedure to run properly. Review the list of returned clients. If one of them is a potential duplicate you can either enter data under that client by clicking on them, or select "This is a new client" if you are sure they are not a duplicate.

## Verify Address

When entering address data the form will require that the address be verified. This is a stored procedure that looks up the data entered on the form using the Google Maps API. This insures that the address entered actually exists, and it helps to standardize the way addresses are recorded. It avoids inconsistencies like South Tracy vs. S. Tracy. If the client does not have an address then you have the option to "Make Verify Address Not Mandatory".

NOTE: Entering "Homeless" under address will make the stored procedure return the address of the Warming Center. This is not accurate and you should make verify address not mandatory in this case.

## Fields

* Required Fields
  * Last Name
  * First Name
  * Name Data Quality
  * Birth Date
  * Gender
  * Check For Duplicates
    * Required Stored Procedure
  * Relation to Head of Household
  * Race
  * Ethnicity
  * Address
  * Zip Code
  * Verify Address
    * Required Stored Procedure
* Optional Fields
  * Middle Name
  * Citizenship Status
  * Suffix
  * Drivers License/State ID
  * Foreign Born
  * Apt. Number
  * Contact Information Fields
* Read Only Fields
  * Customer ID
  * Family ID





  